==Concept of an Extensible Framework==
<p>Automation is a generic term for a wide range of activity being done in order to reduce the manual effort of doing repeating task. Automation can scope from simple data extraction process to enterprise level testing and reporting processes. 
<br/>When it comes to data extraction or data feeding process, you never know when your external environment is goining to change, making your valuable efforts and money wastage.</p> 
<p>Also you might have experienced your managements never-ending requirements of automation. One very fine day you might have selected a tool for some specific automation process and probably have got a success. But the day, the management starts putting on more diversified requirements, you will come to a situation where you are forced to tweek the tool functinality which costs the overall performance or sometimes lowers down your confidance level on the tool. Then one another day you start looking for yet another tool to increase the scope of the automation.</p> 
<p>Automation tool vendors do not provide complete forthright demonstrations when showcasing the "simplicity" of their tools. We have seen the tools play nice with those applications. And we try to get the tools to play nice with our applications just as fluently. Inherently, project after project, we do not achieve the same level of success.</p> 
<p>In order to meet the ever growing need of an automation process there is a need of an automation framework which is highly extensible to keep pace with future demands.</p> 
<p>Vibz Automation Framework is designed keeping in view the easy of extending the scope of automation to meet any requirement which can be automated. Whether it is a web automation or a windows automation, anything can be brought under the unified framework either by using built-in modules or including extended module to the framework. The scope can be extended in four different directions.
<br/>http://vauto.googlecode.com/files/architecture2.jpg <br/>
    # <b>Extended instructions.</b> Instructions are the operation that you want to perform on or through your Application Under Test (AUT). Example: Type, Click (on browser). The framework provides easy integration of instruction set through extended module.<br/>
    # <b>Extended Macros.</b> Macros are data manipulation process that you want to perform before providing it to an instruction. Example: Average(a,b,c...), Date_Add(Date,15) etc. One can easily write their own macros and plug it into the framework. <br/>
    # <b>Extended Input data.</b> Although input data to a test case can be provided inline to a script. However, sometime you may decide to take the input data or export the processed data to/from some external source (say Excel, XML, DB etc). In that case the data retrieval or even exporting technique need to be extended. The framework can be extended to do data processing over a wide range of external file.<br/>
    # <b>Extended Reporting.</b> Reporting is the final outcome of the automation process. One may like to provide it in HTML/XML format or export the result to some repository. The framework can be extended easily to customize the reporting process.
<br/>
[http://code.google.com/p/vauto/wiki/CreatingExtendedModule Know how to write your extended module.]