==Registering an module==
  There are two modes of registering a module to a framework.
  * *Manual*: Adding an entry into vibz.reg file.
   * While manually registering your module you need to place your assembly at your installed location(i.e where you have installed Vibz automation). example: for me its *C:\Program Files\Vibzworld\Automation Studio*.
    - The installed folder will have plugin folder. Plugin folder has sub folders specific for each type of modules. Consider the new module is an instruction library say 'inst_lib.dll'. To register this dll create a new folder say 'my_lib' inside [Install_loc]/plugin/instruction. 
    _ Then place your assembly and all its references under this folder.
   * Now you need to update vibz.reg file. vibz.reg file will be located at your installed location. 
   * Open the file in any text editor
   * The file basically has four sections: data, instruction, macro and report. Based on the type of module you need to add the reference to your module assembly under specific section. 
Example: For above consideration you will add the entry as shown below:
   {{{
<configuration versionsupport="...">
  <data>
    ...
  </data>
  <instruction>
    ...
    <include name="some_name" path="plugin\instruction\my_lib\inst_lib.dll" />
  </instruction>
  <macro>
    ...
  </macro>
  <report>
   ...  
  </report>
</configuration>
   }}}
  * *Through a zipped file*: In case you want to share your module with other user you can create a zip file. The installed Studio has a the Extension manager through which a user can easily register your module. This furthers supresses the complexity when your module itself is a big projects with multiple referenced files.
  To create a zip file you need to follow these steps.
   * Bundle all the module files in a folder.
   * Create a {name}.plg (any name) file in the same folder.
    [http://vauto.googlecode.com/files/web.plg Example] - To be discused.
   * Zip the folder.